---
layout: post
title:  "Updated Article Summaries"
date:   2021-09-16 17:02:41 -0400
categories: jekyll update
---
This week I went back and spent about an hour re-reading my 5 articles from last week and re-evaluating if they were good or not. I discovered that "Introduction to the special issue on visual game analytics" was not a relevant article to my research topic and I decided to throw it out. Here are my updated summaries.

A User Study of Different Gameplay Visualizations: <https://dl-acm-org.proxy.lib.umich.edu/doi/pdf/10.1145/2556288.2557317>
<br>Summary: This article opens by discussing how video game statistics have been growing in populatity in multiplayer gaming in recent years. In this stduy they set out to prove that cluster representations of data could be a suitable alternative to classic heatmaps. The study took 29 players and had them play Team Fortress 2 and then completed 6 tasks relating to the data representations. The study used a classic heatmap, an enclosure cluster representation, and a circle cluster representation. The participants in each task had to detect certain kinds of information based on the graph type. For example, detecting which control point was most fiercely contested based on the map presented. The result found that the circle representation was the most efficient and produced less errors. Heatmaps were discovered to be suitable if players only wanted to gain an overview of a single variable, but it can be suboptimal if the heatmap lacks distinctive areas. The circle representation gives a high level overview of the distribution of different variables, but does not give exact proportions. A tooltip was recommended to be added. The enclosure representation is good when you are trying to see how data relates to its geographic distribution.

Analytics-Based AI Techniques for a Better Gaming Experience: <http://www.gameaipro.com/GameAIPro2/GameAIPro2_Chapter39_Analytics-Based_AI_Techniques_for_a_Better_Gaming_Experience.pdf>
<br>Summary: This paper mainly focuses on how AI algorithms can be used to adjust game content or mechanics for a player in real time. They begin by mentioning there are 5 groups of ways to drive better experiences for players through adaption, recommendation, or team matching. There are many different types of game metrics - quantitative measures of one or more attributes of interaction - that vary by genre. Given these metrics you can use varius techniques to derive a user model for analysis. Typically analysis is individual or community based. Individual analysis refers to operating on data pertaining to a single player, such as changing difficulty, player predictions, personalized game conten, and developing AIs that match the players skill. Communal refers to uncovering patterns or trends of a subset of players. Typically using clusters to recognize distinct groups. Next, the article discusses adaptive techniques. Skill based difficulty is when a game is tailored to match a player's skill level. Two common ways of doing this are AI-controlled characters that can have adjusted behaviors, or to adjust the layout of the game map. Emotion-Based useds a players current state and emotions to adjust a game. Recently some companies have tried doeing this with sensors but they tend to interfere with the players abilities to play the game. Lastly there is style-based adaption which aims at tailoring the game to fit a preferred play style of a player's. The article gives a good example of this with Assassin's Creed. The article concludes by saying there has been very little work in procedural content personalization based on style and the area deserves more attention.

Perfecting A Video Game with Game Metrics: <https://www-proquest-com.proxy.lib.umich.edu/publiccontent/docview/2063390849?pq-origsite=primo>
<br>Summary: This article opens by saying no game is perfect for everyone, but there are attributes that make games wonderful to play. The first is Narration, or storytelling. Narration helps make a game feel alive and have meaning. Additionally the graphics are another attribute that needs focus to make a great game. Graphics are the first thing that most players consider when choosing a game and it is an important start. Lastly the game experience, and this is where analytics come into play. Being able to analyze how users interact with games is a prime source of information about the degree of success of a games' design. The article then discusses Metrics for in-game growth, more specifically User-Initiated Events, Start, Fail and Complete (SFC), and in-game performance metrics. There are other metrics mentioned throughout the article such as retention, Daily Active Users, and Monthly active users as well. In the end the article concludes that the metrics are the most important thing that matters when it comes to the performance of a game. 

PLATO: A visual analytics system for gameplay data: <https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0097849313001891?casa_token=rFeuygvba8wAAAAA:GkXeLu_VHFcvX6tbFZKifvGhnwj3LmIF2Hyq56i73O2rDggQ2kMF9h_4XnRDtSYBzdNpqa0TZw>
<br>Summary: This article discusses a visual analytics system for multi-dimensional and temporal gameplay data called PLATO. This was designed to be adaptable to many games and allows users to take advantage of many different graph analysis algorithms. The software has many different build in types of visualizations and discusses them in detail. Each representation displayed various states and visualized the actions that would lead a player to that state. At a given time a user can see which states players were in and can sort by different attributes, such as gender. 
